Hello again in this video.
We're going to be implementing the first part of recasting so that when we click anywhere in our game
we shoot out a ray from the camera to the point that we've clicked.
We're going to visualize that with a debug line so that we can see exactly where it is that our right
is shooting so let's jump in and start right casting.
Okay.
I'd like to start by articulating the problem and solution the problem we have is that we need to click
somewhere and have our player move to that position but move there in 3D space and we can move our mouse
Mouse around in 2D space.
But how do we know that we're trying to say walk just under the tree over there.
All we know is where we are in 2D space.
And the solution to that is using Ray casting.
So what is Ray casting.
It's the process of shooting an invisible ray from a point in a space specified direction to detect
whether any colliders lay in the path of that Ray.
So in other words to visualize that we start our ray at a particular point for us.
We're doing that right in front of the camera or at the camera's origin point and we're shooting a ray
which is like our frickin laser beam.
If you'd like to look at it that way and that right is going to collide somewhere and it'll be interesting
in the future for us to know where did it collide because that's where we want the player to walk or
that might be where we want the player to go loot a dead body or to attack an enemy.
So that's the important part of it.
And out of these the two main things we're interested in is what's the location the vector 3 so that
X Y Z.
These these are the three aspects of our vector three.
So we know the starting location the origin and we need to know the direction So what direction we're
facing and if we go back and look in our game over here we can see that when we look at our main camera
and I'm just going to change the size of the icon by going click on gizmos and up the top on 3D icons
just reduce that.
So my camera icons not so quite so massive.
And so we can see if I scroll the way in this point just here where my x y z x y z gizmo is just at
that point right in there is the origin.
That's where we're shooting our right from wrong to shoot our ray from.
And then if I change my window a little bit here you'll see that we have the cameras near clipping planes
so this box just in here.
If I roll it around a bit you'll see it a bit easier.
This is where we're going to shoot the laser from and into that camera's near clipping plane.
So let me just draw this a little bit and grab my pen and start scribbling on the screen so you can
see this just here on the camera.
The camera's near clipping plane relates to what we are going to see as a play on our screen and because
I've got this we'd kind of tall and skinny stretch on my game window at the moment.
That's why these two look like that.
And because we're in Free Aspect mode as well.
And so if we start from the origin just here and we move our mouse to say just there on the screen then
we're going to shoot a ray from that point to that point and wherever it intersects a collision which
might be just there we know that that is the point that the plane was looking to click at.
So that might correspond to say there on the screen.
So that's how we're calculated.
That's how we're getting that the plane should be moving to that point and to do that we need a couple
of nifty methods that are going to show you in a moment.
Once I clear my screen we're going to do two cool things one is using debug dot draw ray which is where
we need to know the start and we need to know the direction we can also change the color if we want
a couple of other things but mostly the start and the direction as well as the camera dot screen point
to Ray and I'm giving you the link to both of these if you want to read up on them a little bit more.
But these are the two methods we're going to be using so back over into unity.
Let's start our fire up our scripts our movie script.
Actually you know what I just saw sample scene is still called sample scene and changes to sandbox are
right click rename call it sandbox you can leave it a sample scene if you want but on it to be known
as sandbox I'm going say which is control s or command s and then now we'll find our scripts open up
move up and within here we want to create a variable which is going to be of type Ray and we'll call
it last.
Right.
So make yourself a new line of type Ray and it will be lost right.
Why is it lost.
RAY Well it's the last ray that we've shot at at the screen so just recognizing the fact that each time
we create a new ray the old one is gone and we don't need to keep a connection to that anymore reference
it anymore it's the last ray that we've shot and within update we will create ourselves an if statement
if and then we're looking for input capital I input dot net how is it a little micro challenge for you
how do we know if we have clicked the left mouse button if you know how to do that just filling the
rest of this that's going to be get mouse button down and it is button zero usually and then we've gone
out to double parentheses and then on our next line Kelly prices we need to say last ray that we've
created a variable to sub here last ray equals now how do we get our camera if you remember that little
micro challenge for you again to test your memory if you've done this in our other courses we're going
to be looking for camera dot main camera dot main is our main camera and then again using the method
I mentioned before a screen point to Ray and where are we looking for.
Well pretty cool we've got input dot mouse position okay.
And then finally we can use debug dot draw Ray and the starting point for this will be last ray dot
origin so the origin of our camera comma lost Ray dot direction.
What are these things already made for us.
Now we want to make the visualization of this quite long so I'm going to times this by 100 but this
means that our ray will be drawn way off into the distance.
So now we click play and you can see as I click in various points on the screen you can see that this
ray is being shot out.
Let me just move the camera around a little bit.
You can see the ray is being shot to correspond to where I've clicked on the screen so going from the
camera to our terrain.
Okay.
So that's the first step in Ray casting visualizing the ray.
Next up we want to say well this is the point that we want to move our player to and just a reminder
if you've got any questions at all about what we've covered in this video what is Ray casting in general
if you're confused or even if you just want to summarize your understanding of what's going on.
Please do throw your questions into the Q and A into our community forum so that we can help you out
and make sure that you don't get stuck.
So great work in this video and I'll see you in the next video.